docs/sso-guides/configure-onelogin-oidc.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Configure OneLogin OIDC  

Use this guide to configure OneLogin SSO with OpenID Connect (OIDC) on DronaHQ. Once configured, users can log in to DronaHQ with their OneLogin credentials.

## Prerequisites

To set up OneLogin OIDC SSO in DronaHQ, you will need:

1. Permissions to create an OIDC application in OneLogin.
1. Manage Users access on self-hosted DronaHQ instance or DronaHQ Cloud to configure SSO configurations.

## Setting up OneLogin

1. Create a new OneLogin application
In OneLogin, create a new application for DronaHQ. Follow the steps in the [OneLogin OpenID Connect Customer Connector guide](https://onelogin.service-now.com/support?id=kb_article&sys_id=2fd988e697b72150c90c3b0e6253af7f&kb_category=de885d2187372d10695f0f66cebb351f) to create a new OIDC application. Use the following settings.


- On the Configuration page, under Redirect URIs, enter `DronaHQ Redirect URL`. You can locate it on DronaHQ portal, Go to `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> OIDC OpenID Connect` and Copy DronaHQ OAuth Redirect URL and paste it in Redirect URIs field in OneLogin Configuration page.
<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-oauth-redirect.png" alt="DronaHQ OAuth Redirect URL" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>DronaHQ OAuth Redirect URL</i></figcaption>
</figure>

- On Parameters page, select Configured by admin under Credentials. In this section, you can add custom claims—for example, `user_id`.

- On the SSO page, select `Web` as the `Application type`. Select `POST` as the `Token endpoint`.

Save the `Client ID` and `Client secret` to use in DronaHQ.

### Adding SSO Configuration

For setting up OIDC SSO in DronaHQ, Go to `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> OIDC OpenID Connect`

Enter form with below fields -

 | Field | Description  | 
| ----------------- |---------------- |
| Name            | Provide Friendly Name of this SSO configuration  |
| Restricted Domain           | Enter domain name for which you want your users to login with for this SSO Configuration. You can add multiple domain names as well. eg - `domain1.com , domain2.com`. DronaHQ will automatically redirect to SSO url when we encounter any user’s sign in request with an email id belonging to the given restricted domain.
 |
| Client ID              | Client ID from your OAuth app created above. |
| Client Secret | Client Secret from your OAuth app created above. |
| Scope      | `openid email profile groups params` |
| Authorization Request | Authorization endpoint provided by OneLogin i.e. `https://YOURDOMAIN.onelogin.com/oidc/2/auth` where `YOURDOMAIN` is your subdomain provided by OneLogin. |
| Access Token Request | Token endpoint provided by OneLogin i.e. `https://YOURDOMAIN.onelogin.com/oidc/2/token` where `YOURDOMAIN` is your subdomain provided by OneLogin. |
| Refresh Token Request | Token endpoint provided by OneLogin. i.e. `https://YOURDOMAIN.onelogin.com/oidc/2/token` where `YOURDOMAIN` is your subdomain provided by OneLogin. This will be called, when using current access token returns `401 status code` response |
| Add Claim List | You can map your `User's ID, Name, Email and Group` with corresponding values in DronaHQ. Here, you need to provide exact path of corresponding key present in JWT Token received from Token endpoint. Add `{{idToken.email}}` to map against `DHQ User Email`, this will refer to `email` key present in `idToken` parameter. Similarly you can add `{{idToken.given_name}}` to map against `DHQ User Name`, this will refer to `given_name` key present in `idToken` parameter. Similarly you can add `{{idToken.groups}}` to map against `DHQ User Group`, this will refer to `groups` key present in `idToken` parameter. |
| Enable JIT user provisioning | Just in time (JIT) user provisioning enables DronaHQ to provision user accounts when users sign in via OneLogin SSO for the `first time`. This means you won't have to manually invite each user to DronaHQ first. |

:::tip TIP

- Enable JIT user provisioning toggle to automatically add new users provisioned by SSO into DronaHQ
- Map group name to provide restricted access of the App to the specific group of end users. For Example, you may want to restrict the Finance related Apps to your Finance team members in your organization and HR specific apps to your HR Team in your organization and so on. By default all users will be mapped to the Default group in DronaHQ.
- If user's group is mapped with DronaHQ Group, and at time of user login, if its group name doesn't exists then DronaHQ will create a new group with same name and map it with this user.

:::

### Steps
1. Fill above form.
1. Once, above form is filled, click on `Save to draft` option to save your SSO Configuration.
1. You will be able to view your recently saved SSO configuration in the list. You can click on `Test SSO` button and it will open SSO Login url in a popup. Once you login successfully and if everything is set up correctly, then finally you will see a success message at the bottom.
1. Now, that testing is successful, you can click on the `more option` for above SSO configuration and click on `Activate` to make it live.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-oauth-login-activate.png" alt="Activate SSO" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Activate SSO</i></figcaption>
</figure>

Once live, all your users belonging to above given domain will be redirected to your SSO login from both the `End User Portal` and `Creator Portal`.

With OneLogin Single Sign-On (SSO), users can login into DronaHQ using a single set of login credentials. It simplifies user provisioning and management. User accounts can be created, updated, and deactivated centrally, ensuring efficient administration across all connected applications.

Commit message:

Thumbnail import added for images

docs/sso-guides/configure-onelogin-oidc.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Configure OneLogin OIDC  

import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

Use this guide to configure OneLogin SSO with OpenID Connect (OIDC) on DronaHQ. Once configured, users can log in to DronaHQ with their OneLogin credentials.

## Prerequisites

To set up OneLogin OIDC SSO in DronaHQ, you will need:

1. Permissions to create an OIDC application in OneLogin.
1. Manage Users access on self-hosted DronaHQ instance or DronaHQ Cloud to configure SSO configurations.

## Setting up OneLogin

1. Create a new OneLogin application
In OneLogin, create a new application for DronaHQ. Follow the steps in the [OneLogin OpenID Connect Customer Connector guide](https://onelogin.service-now.com/support?id=kb_article&sys_id=2fd988e697b72150c90c3b0e6253af7f&kb_category=de885d2187372d10695f0f66cebb351f) to create a new OIDC application. Use the following settings.


- On the Configuration page, under Redirect URIs, enter `DronaHQ Redirect URL`. You can locate it on DronaHQ portal, Go to `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> OIDC OpenID Connect` and Copy DronaHQ OAuth Redirect URL and paste it in Redirect URIs field in OneLogin Configuration page.
<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-oauth-redirect.png" alt="DronaHQ OAuth Redirect URL" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>DronaHQ OAuth Redirect URL</i></figcaption>
</figure>

- On Parameters page, select Configured by admin under Credentials. In this section, you can add custom claims—for example, `user_id`.

- On the SSO page, select `Web` as the `Application type`. Select `POST` as the `Token endpoint`.

Save the `Client ID` and `Client secret` to use in DronaHQ.

## Configure in DronaHQ

For setting up OIDC SSO in DronaHQ, Go to `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> OIDC OpenID Connect`

Enter form with below fields -

 | Field | Description  | 
| ----------------- |---------------- |
| Name            | Provide Friendly Name of this SSO configuration  |
| Restricted Domain           | Enter domain name for which you want your users to login with for this SSO Configuration. You can add multiple domain names as well. eg - `domain1.com , domain2.com`. DronaHQ will automatically redirect to SSO url when we encounter any user’s sign in request with an email id belonging to the given restricted domain.
 |
| Client ID              | Client ID from your OAuth app created above. |
| Client Secret | Client Secret from your OAuth app created above. |
| Scope      | `openid email profile groups params` |
| Authorization Request | Authorization endpoint provided by OneLogin i.e. `https://YOURDOMAIN.onelogin.com/oidc/2/auth` where `YOURDOMAIN` is your subdomain provided by OneLogin. |
| Access Token Request | Token endpoint provided by OneLogin i.e. `https://YOURDOMAIN.onelogin.com/oidc/2/token` where `YOURDOMAIN` is your subdomain provided by OneLogin. |
| Refresh Token Request | Token endpoint provided by OneLogin. i.e. `https://YOURDOMAIN.onelogin.com/oidc/2/token` where `YOURDOMAIN` is your subdomain provided by OneLogin. This will be called, when using current access token returns `401 status code` response |
| Add Claim List | You can map your `User's ID, Name, Email and Group` with corresponding values in DronaHQ. Here, you need to provide exact path of corresponding key present in JWT Token received from Token endpoint. Add `{{idToken.email}}` to map against `DHQ User Email`, this will refer to `email` key present in `idToken` parameter. Similarly you can add `{{idToken.given_name}}` to map against `DHQ User Name`, this will refer to `given_name` key present in `idToken` parameter. Similarly you can add `{{idToken.groups}}` to map against `DHQ User Group`, this will refer to `groups` key present in `idToken` parameter. |
| Enable JIT user provisioning | Just in time (JIT) user provisioning enables DronaHQ to provision user accounts when users sign in via OneLogin SSO for the `first time`. This means you won't have to manually invite each user to DronaHQ first. |

:::tip TIP

- Enable JIT user provisioning toggle to automatically add new users provisioned by SSO into DronaHQ
- Map group name to provide restricted access of the App to the specific group of end users. For Example, you may want to restrict the Finance related Apps to your Finance team members in your organization and HR specific apps to your HR Team in your organization and so on. By default all users will be mapped to the Default group in DronaHQ.
- If user's group is mapped with DronaHQ Group, and at time of user login, if its group name doesn't exists then DronaHQ will create a new group with same name and map it with this user.

:::

### Steps
1. Fill above form.
1. Once, above form is filled, click on `Save to draft` option to save your SSO Configuration.
1. You will be able to view your recently saved SSO configuration in the list. You can click on `Test SSO` button and it will open SSO Login url in a popup. Once you login successfully and if everything is set up correctly, then finally you will see a success message at the bottom.
1. Now, that testing is successful, you can click on the `more option` for above SSO configuration and click on `Activate` to make it live.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-oauth-login-activate.png" alt="Activate SSO" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Activate SSO</i></figcaption>
</figure>

Once live, all your users belonging to above given domain will be redirected to your SSO login from both the `End User Portal` and `Creator Portal`.

With OneLogin Single Sign-On (SSO), users can login into DronaHQ using a single set of login credentials. It simplifies user provisioning and management. User accounts can be created, updated, and deactivated centrally, ensuring efficient administration across all connected applications.
