docs/reference/controls/detailed-view.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Detail View
---

import Image from '@site/src/components/Image';
import VersionedLink from '@site/src/components/VersionedLink';
import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

The Detail View control serves the purpose of retrieving data from a sheet and presenting it in an elaborate format, showcasing all selected fields for each entry in the sheet.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/controls/detail-view/preview.jpg" alt="Detail View" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Detail View</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Binding Data Options

The Detail View control accepts an object in JSON format to display data. You can bind data to the control using the following methods:

### Static Data Option

To display static data in the Detail View control, you can use the Bind Data option and specify the data as an array of objects. Each object represents an entry with its properties and values. For example:

```js
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Carlyn Bartle",
    "email": "Carlyn.Bartle@example.com"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com"
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Jane Smith",
    "email": "jane.smith@example.com"
  }
]
```

By using the Bind Data option, you can dynamically display the data from the array of objects in a detailed manner in the Detail View control.

## Properties


| Property           | Description                                                                                                     |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Show Key Value Map | Toggle switch to enable or disable the Key Value Map view for JSON type data.  |
| Default View       | You can set the default view for JSON type data when the Key Value Map is disabled. The default view can be set as Table or JSON. |
| Choose Fields that will be Editable	| Select the fields in the data that will be available for editing.|
| Edited Field Indicator Color |	The color used to indicate fields that have been edited.|
|Header Font Options |	Options to customize the font for the header section.|
|Value Font Options	| Options to customize the font for the values or data content.|

## Events


| Trigger       | Description                                                                                       |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| save_changes  | Occurs when the save button for saving changes is clicked, typically after editing or updating.|

Commit message:

fixes and changes for kv docs, utility functions, detailedview control
-> KV docs typos fixed
-> Utility SETCTRLVALUE example for list type controls added
-> Accessible outputs added to detailview control

docs/reference/controls/detailed-view.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Detail View
---

import Image from '@site/src/components/Image';
import VersionedLink from '@site/src/components/VersionedLink';
import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

The Detail View control serves the purpose of retrieving data from a sheet and presenting it in an elaborate format, showcasing all selected fields for each entry in the sheet.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/controls/detail-view/preview.jpg" alt="Detail View" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Detail View</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Binding Data Options

The Detail View control accepts an object in JSON format to display data. You can bind data to the control using the following methods:

### Static Data Option

To display static data in the Detail View control, you can use the Bind Data option and specify the data as an array of objects. Each object represents an entry with its properties and values. For example:

```js
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Carlyn Bartle",
    "email": "Carlyn.Bartle@example.com"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john.doe@example.com"
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Jane Smith",
    "email": "jane.smith@example.com"
  }
]
```

By using the Bind Data option, you can dynamically display the data from the array of objects in a detailed manner in the Detail View control.

## Properties


| Property           | Description                                                                                                     |
|--------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Show Key Value Map | Toggle switch to enable or disable the Key Value Map view for JSON type data.  |
| Default View       | You can set the default view for JSON type data when the Key Value Map is disabled. The default view can be set as Table or JSON. |
| Choose Fields that will be Editable	| Select the fields in the data that will be available for editing.|
| Edited Field Indicator Color |	The color used to indicate fields that have been edited.|
|Header Font Options |	Options to customize the font for the header section.|
|Value Font Options	| Options to customize the font for the values or data content.|

## Control Outputs


These outputs can be referenced in other controls, data queries, or JS functions using the control's unique name.


| Property | Description |
|---|---|
| {{detailview.PROPERTIES.EDITEDDATA}} | All the data in detailview including edited fields. |
| {{detailview.PROPERTIES.EDITEDFIELDS}} | The fields that have been edited |


## Events


| Trigger       | Description                                                                                       |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| save_changes  | Occurs when the save button for saving changes is clicked, typically after editing or updating.|
