docs/reference/connectors/databricks.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Databricks
---

import Image from '@site/src/components/Image'; import VersionedLink from '@site/src/components/VersionedLink'; import
Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

Databricks is a cloud-based platform that unifies data engineering, data science, and machine learning workflows, enabling organizations to process, analyze, and govern large-scale data using a data lakehouse architecture.

<!-- ## Prerequisite

To establish a connection with Google BigQuery as a connector, follow these steps:

1. Google Cloud Account: Ensure you have a valid Google Cloud Platform (GCP) account with the necessary permissions for
   BigQuery access.

2. Google Cloud Credentials: Obtain Google Cloud Credentials for authentication. For Service Account Authentication and
   the private key, refer to this detailed article
   [here](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/client-libraries#creating_a_service_account).

3. Service Account Creation: Create a Service Account within `Google Cloud Storage > APIs and Services > Credentials`.
If not created, select `Service Account` and provide account details, description, and access permissions to projects
and users.

<figure>
   <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/bigquery/serviceacc.jpeg" alt="Service Account" />
   <figcaption align = "center"><i>Service Account</i></figcaption>
</figure>

4. Generate JSON Key: From the created Service Account, generate a JSON Key. Provide necessary details and permissions,
and download the JSON file. Keep it accessible for configuring the connector.

<figure>
   <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/bigquery/json.jpeg" alt="JSON Key" />
   <figcaption align = "center"><i>JSON Key</i></figcaption>
</figure>

5. Connector Configuration: Configure the BigQuery connector using the obtained Google Cloud Credentials. Set the
   necessary authentication method and use the downloaded JSON Key for private key authentication. -->

## Configuring Connector in DronaHQ

Configure your database category using the provided details. Validate connection with `Test connection` and `Save`
settings for secure database setup.

#### General

| Field           | Description                                                             |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|Host             | Enter the Server Host Name                                              |
| Port            | Enter the Port number                                                   |
| HTTP Path       | Enter the HTTP Path                                                     |
| Default Name    | Enter the Database name                                                 |
| Default Schema  | Enter the Schema name                                                   |
| Personal Token Access     | Enter the access key.                                         |

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/databricks/details.png" alt="Databricks with Sample details." />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Databricks with Sample details.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Admin

| Advanced Option                                                                                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Connection Options                                                                                 | The `key` and `value` connection options in database configuration refer to specific settings (keys) and their corresponding values that dictate how the application connects to the database |
| <VersionedLink to = "/datasource-concepts/whitelisting-dronahq-ip/"> Whitelist IP </VersionedLink> | Enhance security by restricting database access to specific whitelisted IP addresses.                                                                                                         |

## Adding Database Queries

After configuring the connector, access it in your Connector Library.

Click `Add query` once the connection is established. Create queries, run them, and view responses.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/databricks/query.png" alt="Write Queries" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Write Queries</i></figcaption>
</figure>

:::tip 
Use double curly brackets for dynamic variables. Test with sample values before saving. Link dynamic variables to
controls/actions for runtime use. 
:::

Saved queries appear under your connector in Connector Library.

## Using Databricks Connector

### Data Bind using Data Query

#### Read/Display Data Query for Databricks:

Start by crafting an SQL query to extract data from your Databricks database. Consider a scenario where you want to
retrieve names from the `employees`. The SQL query is:

Query used:

```sql
SELECT * FROM employees;
```

Query explanation:

This SQL query retrieves names from the `employees`.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/databricks/retrieve-query.png" alt="Query example for retrieving data from Databricks." />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Query example for retrieving data from Databricks.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

Integrate the fetched data into your application's interface.

a. Access the Controls section and introduce the Table grid control.

b. Navigate to `Data Bind Options ->  Quick Select -> Connector Library`.

c. Opt for the Databricks connector and choose the query that aligns with your data presentation goals.

By following these steps, you can seamlessly retrieve and display data from the
`employees` table using the BigQuery Connector. The data is filtered and limited
based on your specified criteria, enhancing your application's functionality and user experience.

Commit message:

updated AlloyDB and Databricks docs

docs/reference/connectors/databricks.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Databricks
---

import Image from '@site/src/components/Image'; import VersionedLink from '@site/src/components/VersionedLink'; import
Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

Databricks is a cloud-based platform that unifies data engineering, data science, and machine learning workflows, enabling organizations to process, analyze, and govern large-scale data using a data lakehouse architecture.

## Prerequisite

To establish a connection with Databricks as a connector, follow these steps:

1. Log in to your Databricks workspace.

2. In the sidebar, click SQL > SQL Warehouses.

3. In the list of available warehouses, click the target warehouse's name.

4. On the Connection Details tab, copy the connection details that you need, such as `Server hostname`, `Port`, and `HTTP path`.

<figure>
   <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/databricks/config.png" alt="Databricks account details Key" />
   <figcaption align = "center"><i>Databricks account details</i></figcaption>
</figure>

## Configuring Connector in DronaHQ

Configure your database category using the provided details. Validate connection with `Test connection` and `Save`
settings for secure database setup.

#### General

| Field           | Description                                                             |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|Host             | Enter the Server Host Name                                              |
| Port            | 443                                                  |
| HTTP Path       | Enter the HTTP Path                                                     |
| Default Name (optional)    | Enter the Database name                                      |
| Default Schema (optional) | Enter the Schema name                                         |
| Personal Token Access     | Enter the access key.                                         |

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/databricks/details.png" alt="Databricks with Sample details." />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Databricks with Sample details.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Admin

| Advanced Option                                                                                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Connection Options                                                                                 | The `key` and `value` connection options in database configuration refer to specific settings (keys) and their corresponding values that dictate how the application connects to the database |
| <VersionedLink to = "/datasource-concepts/whitelisting-dronahq-ip/"> Whitelist IP </VersionedLink> | Enhance security by restricting database access to specific whitelisted IP addresses.                                                                                                         |

## Adding Database Queries

After configuring the connector, access it in your Connector Library.

Click `Add query` once the connection is established. Create queries, run them, and view responses.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/databricks/query.png" alt="Write Queries" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Write Queries</i></figcaption>
</figure>

:::tip 
Use double curly brackets for dynamic variables. Test with sample values before saving. Link dynamic variables to
controls/actions for runtime use. 
:::

Saved queries appear under your connector in Connector Library.

## Using Databricks Connector

### Data Bind using Data Query

#### Read/Display Data Query for Databricks:

Start by crafting an SQL query to extract data from your Databricks database. Consider a scenario where you want to
retrieve names from the `employees`. The SQL query is:

Query used:

```sql
SELECT * FROM employees;
```

Query explanation:

This SQL query retrieves names from the `employees`.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/reference/connectors/databricks/retrieve-query.png" alt="Query example for retrieving data from Databricks." />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Query example for retrieving data from Databricks.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

Integrate the fetched data into your application's interface.

a. Access the Controls section and introduce the Table grid control.

b. Navigate to `Data Bind Options ->  Quick Select -> Connector Library`.

c. Opt for the Databricks connector and choose the query that aligns with your data presentation goals.

By following these steps, you can seamlessly retrieve and display data from the
`employees` table using the BigQuery Connector. The data is filtered and limited
based on your specified criteria, enhancing your application's functionality and user experience.
