docs/sso/configuring-sso-for-google-oidc.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';


# Configuring SSO for Google OIDC

:::info PLEASE NOTE

Available only on Self-Hosted Version

:::


## Prerequisites

To set up OIDC SSO in DronaHQ, you will need:

1. Admin permission on DronaHQ Self-Hosted portal.
1. Permissions to create a Google OAuth Client.


## 1. Create a Google OAuth Client ID

Go to your [Google Developer Console](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/get-google-api-clientid) and create an OAuth client ID.

If you are asked to configure an `OAuth consent screen`, select `Internal` and add scope. For SSO you can add these three basic scopes - `email, profile, openid`.

Configure the OAuth Client ID as a `Web application` and enter `Redirect URL`(for eg- https://your-self-hosted-domain.com/sso/callback/googleoauth) under `Authorized redirect URIs -> + URIs`. DronaHQ `Redirect URL` can be located at  `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> Google - OAuth`.


When you `create` OAuth Client, you will get `Client ID` and `Client Secret` that you can keep a note of that will be needed later to configure it in DronaHQ. 


## 2. Configure Google SSO in DronaHQ

For setting up Google SSO in DronaHQ, Go to `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> Google - OAuth `


Enter form with below fields -

 | Field | Description  | 
  | ----------------- |---------------- |
| Name            | Provide Friendly Name of this SSO configuration  |
| Restricted Domain           | Enter domain name for which you want your users to login with for this SSO Configuration. You can add multiple domain names as well. eg - `domain1.com , domain2.com`. DronaHQ will automatically redirect to Google SSO url when we encounter any user’s sign in request with an email id belonging to the given restricted domain.
 |
| Client ID              | Client ID from your OAuth app created on Google Developers Console. |
| Client Secret | Client Secret from your OAuth app created on Google Developers Console. |
| Scope      | OAuth scopes values seperated with a comma or space that you want DronaHQ to access data. For eg - `email, profile, openid` |
| Enable JIT user provisioning | Just in time (JIT) user provisioning enables DronaHQ to provision user accounts when users sign in via SSO for the `first time`. This means you won't have to manually invite each user to DronaHQ first. |

:::tip TIP

- Enable JIT user provisioning toggle to automatically add new users provisioned by SSO into DronaHQ

:::

## Steps

1. Create Google OAuth Client ID.
1. Fill above form.
1. Once, above form is filled, click on `Save to draft` option to save your SSO Configuration.
1. You will be able to view your recently saved SSO configuration in the list. You can click on `Test SSO` button and it will open SSO Login url in a popup. Once you login successfully and if everything is set up correctly, then finally you will see a success message at the bottom.
1. Now, that testing is successful, you can click on the `more option` for above SSO configuration and click on `Activate` to make it live.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-google-activate.png" alt="Activate SSO" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Activate SSO</i></figcaption>
</figure>

Once live, you will see `Sign in with Google` option in both the `End User Portal` and `Creator Portal`.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-google-sign-in.png" alt="Google Sign In" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Google Sign In</i></figcaption>
</figure>



With Google Single Sign-On (SSO), users can login into DronaHQ using their Google ID. It simplifies user provisioning and management.

Commit message:

Linking with Cloud version for configuring Google Sign In note added

docs/sso/configuring-sso-for-google-oidc.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';


# Configuring SSO for Google OIDC

:::info PLEASE NOTE

Available only on Self-Hosted Version.
If you are on DronaHQ Cloud version, Please refer [Configuring Sign In with Google](/sso/configuring-sign-in-with-google)
:::


## Prerequisites

To set up OIDC SSO in DronaHQ, you will need:

1. Admin permission on DronaHQ Self-Hosted portal.
1. Permissions to create a Google OAuth Client.


## 1. Create a Google OAuth Client ID

Go to your [Google Developer Console](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/get-google-api-clientid) and create an OAuth client ID.

If you are asked to configure an `OAuth consent screen`, select `Internal` and add scope. For SSO you can add these three basic scopes - `email, profile, openid`.

Configure the OAuth Client ID as a `Web application` and enter `Redirect URL`(for eg- https://your-self-hosted-domain.com/sso/callback/googleoauth) under `Authorized redirect URIs -> + URIs`. DronaHQ `Redirect URL` can be located at  `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> Google - OAuth`.


When you `create` OAuth Client, you will get `Client ID` and `Client Secret` that you can keep a note of that will be needed later to configure it in DronaHQ. 


## 2. Configure Google SSO in DronaHQ

For setting up Google SSO in DronaHQ, Go to `Manage Users -> SSO CONFIGURATION -> + Add SSO -> Google - OAuth `


Enter form with below fields -

 | Field | Description  | 
  | ----------------- |---------------- |
| Name            | Provide Friendly Name of this SSO configuration  |
| Restricted Domain           | Enter domain name for which you want your users to login with for this SSO Configuration. You can add multiple domain names as well. eg - `domain1.com , domain2.com`. DronaHQ will automatically redirect to Google SSO url when we encounter any user’s sign in request with an email id belonging to the given restricted domain.
 |
| Client ID              | Client ID from your OAuth app created on Google Developers Console. |
| Client Secret | Client Secret from your OAuth app created on Google Developers Console. |
| Scope      | OAuth scopes values seperated with a comma or space that you want DronaHQ to access data. For eg - `email, profile, openid` |
| Enable JIT user provisioning | Just in time (JIT) user provisioning enables DronaHQ to provision user accounts when users sign in via SSO for the `first time`. This means you won't have to manually invite each user to DronaHQ first. |

:::tip TIP

- Enable JIT user provisioning toggle to automatically add new users provisioned by SSO into DronaHQ

:::

## Steps

1. Create Google OAuth Client ID.
1. Fill above form.
1. Once, above form is filled, click on `Save to draft` option to save your SSO Configuration.
1. You will be able to view your recently saved SSO configuration in the list. You can click on `Test SSO` button and it will open SSO Login url in a popup. Once you login successfully and if everything is set up correctly, then finally you will see a success message at the bottom.
1. Now, that testing is successful, you can click on the `more option` for above SSO configuration and click on `Activate` to make it live.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-google-activate.png" alt="Activate SSO" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Activate SSO</i></figcaption>
</figure>

Once live, you will see `Sign in with Google` option in both the `End User Portal` and `Creator Portal`.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail src="/img/sso/sso-google-sign-in.png" alt="Google Sign In" />
  <figcaption align = "center"><i>Google Sign In</i></figcaption>
</figure>



With Google Single Sign-On (SSO), users can login into DronaHQ using their Google ID. It simplifies user provisioning and management.
