docs/databases.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 13
title: Databases
---

import Database from "@site/static/img/database.svg"; 
import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

# <Database /> Databases

Databases play a crucial role in numerous applications, serving as the backbone for storing and managing data. With DronaHQ, you have the capability to execute queries for data retrieval and modification directly from its intuitive editor.

## Connecting a Database

Here you will learn how to connect to a database on DronaHQ.

1. Click on **Connectors** from the sidebar.
2. You will see, on top right there is a **+ Connector** button, click on it.
3. From the list, select the database you need to connect to. This opens the page where you can configure the parameters to connect to your database.

<figure>
  <img
    src='/img/databases-list.png'
    style={{ width: "60%", height: "auto" }}
    alt='List of available databases connectors.'
  />
  <figcaption align='center'>
    <i>List of Databases</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure> 

4. Give a name to the configuring database, to identify it later on.

5. Fill up the required details and parameters to configure your database on DronaHQ successfully. DronaHQ encrypts all your data and store them securely.

6. Click the **Test** button and test the connection. Ensure that the database is valid.

7. Click **Save** to create and save the database connection.

## Pass parameters to Queries

In the realm of database connections, the key factor lies in the manner in which we execute queries. 

Sometimes, in certain situations, such as when executing a query within a loop, it may be necessary to pass different parameters to the query on each iteration, where these parameters hold values specific to the current execution context.


In DronaHQ's Query Builder, it is possible to accomplish this by creating variables using `{{ }}` notation when adding a query to a configured datasource connector, (It can be database or API connector). These variables can then be utilized to pass dynamic parameters to queries through various methods, such as forms, data, user-input, and more, within the microapp.

<hr />

Let's see how to pass parameters to databse query:


For Example, suppose we need to retrieve data from a table based on a particular order ID. However, we want this order ID to be dynamic and passed as a parameter to the query of the database connector.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail
    src='/img/datasource-passParam.gif'
    style={{ width: "100%", height: "auto" }}
    alt='List of available databases connectors.'
  />
  <figcaption align='center'>
    <i>The keyword of `text input control` is used to provide user input as query parameters.</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure>


As shown in the image above, the `orderid` has been transformed into a dynamic variable. Consequently, you can conveniently provide parameter values from the microapp by utilizing keywords.


<figure>
  <Thumbnail
    src='/img/database-pass-query.png'
    style={{ width: "100%", height: "auto" }}
    alt='List of available databases connectors.'
  />
  <figcaption align='center'>
    <i>The keyword of `text input control` is used to provide user input as query parameters.</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Commit message:

query parameter
example changed for database connector

docs/databases.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 13
title: Databases
---

import Database from "@site/static/img/database.svg"; 
import Thumbnail from '@site/src/components/Thumbnail';

# Databases

Databases play a crucial role in numerous applications, serving as the backbone for storing and managing data. With DronaHQ, you have the capability to execute queries for data retrieval and modification directly from its intuitive editor.

## Connecting a Database

Here you will learn how to connect to a database on DronaHQ.

1. Click on **Connectors** from the sidebar.
2. You will see, on top right there is a **+ Connector** button, click on it.
3. From the list, select the database you need to connect to. This opens the page where you can configure the parameters to connect to your database.

<figure>
  <img
    src='/img/databases-list.png'
    style={{ width: "60%", height: "auto" }}
    alt='List of available databases connectors.'
  />
  <figcaption align='center'>
    <i>List of Databases</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure> 

4. Give a name to the configuring database, to identify it later on.

5. Fill up the required details and parameters to configure your database on DronaHQ successfully. DronaHQ encrypts all your data and store them securely.

6. Click the **Test** button and test the connection. Ensure that the database is valid.

7. Click **Save** to create and save the database connection.

## Writing Queries

## Making Queries Dynamic

In the realm of database connections, the key factor lies in the manner in which we execute queries. 

In certain situations, such as when retrieving order details for products in a shop, there may be a need to obtain specific details for different products each time. To achieve this, dynamic inputs can be utilized. By incorporating dynamic parameters into the query, it becomes possible to fetch data from the data source based on the specific product details desired. This approach allows for flexibility and enables the retrieval of product details by passing dynamic parameters whenever required.


In DronaHQ's Query Builder, it is possible to accomplish this by creating variables using `{{ }}` notation when adding a query to a configured datasource connector, (It can be database or API connector). These variables can then be utilized to pass dynamic parameters to queries through various methods, such as forms, data, user-input, and more, within the microapp.

<hr />

Let's see how to pass parameters to database query:


For Example, suppose we need to retrieve data from a table based on a particular order ID. However, we want this order ID to be dynamic and passed as a parameter to the query of the database connector.

<figure>
  <Thumbnail
    src='/img/datasource-passParam.gif'
    style={{ width: "100%", height: "auto" }}
    alt='List of available databases connectors.'
  />
  <figcaption align='center'>
    <i>The keyword of `text input control` is used to provide user input as query parameters.</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure>


As shown in the image above, the `orderid` has been transformed into a dynamic variable. Consequently, you can conveniently provide parameter values from the microapp by utilizing keywords.


<figure>
  <Thumbnail
    src='/img/database-pass-query.png'
    style={{ width: "100%", height: "auto" }}
    alt='List of available databases connectors.'
  />
  <figcaption align='center'>
    <i>The keyword of `text input control` is used to provide user input as query parameters.</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure>
