docs/reference/Helper.md, before:

---
description: Helper methods to perform actions from JS code.
title: Helper Methods
sidebar_position: 50
---

# Helper Methods

`HELPER` methods can help with data manipulation and transformation operations. These methods can be used to manipulate or tranform data in String, Array and Object formats.

## TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY()

`HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY()` method can be used to transform an object to an array of objects. This method is useful when the data object has key-value pairs that represent the columns of a table. 

:::info
Please make sure every key's value array should have the same number of elements.
:::

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY(inputObject);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY({
    id: [1, 2, 3],
    name: ['Jack', 'James', 'John'],
    location: ['New York', 'London', 'Sydney']
});
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
[
    { id: 1, name: 'Jack', location: 'New york' },
    { id: 2, name: 'James', location: 'London' },
    { id: 3, name: 'John' , location: 'Sydney' }
]
```

## TRANSFORMDATATOOBJECT()

`HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOOBJECT()` method can be used to transform an array to an object. This method is useful when the data array is an *array of objects* where each object has same set of keys.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY(inputObject);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY({
    id: [1, 2, 3],
    name: ['Jack', 'James', 'John'],
    location: ['New York', 'London', 'Sydney']
});
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
[
    { id: 1, name: 'Jack', location: 'New york' },
    { id: 2, name: 'James', location: 'London' },
    { id: 3, name: 'John' , location: 'Sydney' }
]
```

## INTERCHANGE()

`HELPER.INTERCHANGE()` method can be used to swap the position of two elements in an array.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.INTERCHANGE(inputArray,index1,index2);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Parameters</span>

| Parameter   | Accepts | Possible values                                   |
|-------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `inputArray`| array  |  array of elements |
| `index1`| integer  | position index of first element  |
| `index2`| integer | position index of second element  |


<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.INTERCHANGE(["apple", "banana", "orange", "grape", "kiwi"],0,4);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
["kiwi", "banana", "orange", "grape", "apple"]
```

## MERGEARRAYS()

`HELPER.MERGEARRAYS()` method can be used to merge two arrays into one.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```	
HELPER.MERGEARRAYS(array1,array2);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```	
HELPER.MERGEARRAYS(["apple", "banana", "orange"], ["grapes", "pineapple"]);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
["apple", "banana", "orange","grapes", "pineapple"]
```

## CONCATENATE()

`HELPER.CONCATENATE()` method can be used to merge two or more strings into one.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.CONCATENATE(string1,string2,string3);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.CONCATENATE("hi ", "hello ", "How are you?");
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
"hi hello How are you?"
```

## FLATTEN()

`HELPER.FLATTEN()` method can be used to convert a multi dimensional array into a single dimension array.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.FLATTEN([array1,array2,array3]);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```	
HELPER.FLATTEN([1, [2, 3], [[4, 5], 6], [7, 8, [9, 10]]]);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

## RANGE()

`HELPER.RANGE()` method can be used to create an array of numbers for a specified range.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.RANGE(start,end);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.RANGE(5,10);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
[5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

## GETKEYVALUE()

`HELPER.GETKEYVALUE()` method can be used to get value of a specified key from object.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.GETKEYVALUE(object,key);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.GETKEYVALUE(
    {
        "key1": "DRONA",
        "key2": "HQ",
        "key3": "WELCOMES",
        "key4": "YOU"
    },"key1");

```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
DRONA
```

## ARRAYTOCSV()

`HELPER.ARRAYTOCSV()` method can be used to convert an array of arrays into csv format.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.GETKEYVALUE(array_of_arrays);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.ARRAYTOCSV(
    [
        ["Name", "Age", "Location"],
        ["John Doe", 30, "New York"],
        ["Jane Smith", 25, "Los Angeles"]
    ]      
);

```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
Name, Age, Location
John Doe, 30, New York
Jane Smith, 25, Los Angeles
```

Commit message:

Global method changes
Changelog:
1) Changes in File Utility functions
2) Information message added to global methods indicating its currently only present on self hosted version
3) Spellcheck done. Few words added to the spelling dictionary.
4) Corrections to descriptions made

docs/reference/Helper.md, after:

---
description: Helper methods to perform actions from JS code.
title: Helper Methods
sidebar_position: 50
---

# Helper Methods

:::info
Helper methods are currently available only on Self-Hosted version > 2.4.2
:::

`HELPER` methods can help with data manipulation and transformation operations. These methods can be used to manipulate or transform data in String, Array and Object formats.

## TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY()

`HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY()` method can be used to transform an object to an array of objects. This method is useful when the data object has key-value pairs that represent the columns of a table. 


<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY(inputObject);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOARRAY({
    id: [1, 2, 3],
    name: ['Jack', 'James', 'John'],
    location: ['New York', 'London', 'Sydney']
});
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
[
    { id: 1, name: 'Jack', location: 'New york' },
    { id: 2, name: 'James', location: 'London' },
    { id: 3, name: 'John' , location: 'Sydney' }
]
```

## TRANSFORMDATATOOBJECT()

`HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOOBJECT()` method can be used to transform an array to an object. This method is useful when the data is an *array of objects* where each object has same set of keys.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOOBJECT(inputArray);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.TRANSFORMDATATOOBJECT(
    [
        { id: 1, name: 'Jack', location: 'New york' },
        { id: 2, name: 'James', location: 'London' },
        { id: 3, name: 'John' , location: 'Sydney' }
    ]
);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
{
    id: [1, 2, 3],
    name: ['Jack', 'James', 'John'],
    location: ['New York', 'London', 'Sydney']
}
```

## INTERCHANGE()

`HELPER.INTERCHANGE()` method can be used to swap the position of two elements in an array.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.INTERCHANGE(inputArray,index1,index2);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Parameters</span>

| Parameter   | Accepts | Possible values                                   |
|-------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `inputArray`| array  |  array of elements |
| `index1`| integer  | position index of first element  |
| `index2`| integer | position index of second element  |


<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.INTERCHANGE(["apple", "banana", "orange", "grape", "kiwi"],0,4);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
["kiwi", "banana", "orange", "grape", "apple"]
```

## MERGEARRAYS()

`HELPER.MERGEARRAYS()` method can be used to merge two arrays into one.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```	
HELPER.MERGEARRAYS(array1,array2);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```	
HELPER.MERGEARRAYS(["apple", "banana", "orange"], ["grapes", "pineapple"]);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
["apple", "banana", "orange","grapes", "pineapple"]
```

## CONCATENATE()

`HELPER.CONCATENATE()` method can be used to merge two or more strings into one.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.CONCATENATE(string1,string2,string3);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.CONCATENATE("hi ", "hello ", "How are you?");
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
"hi hello How are you?"
```

## FLATTEN()

`HELPER.FLATTEN()` method can be used to convert a multi dimensional array into a single dimension array.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.FLATTEN([array1,array2,array3]);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```	
HELPER.FLATTEN([1, [2, 3], [[4, 5], 6], [7, 8, [9, 10]]]);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
[1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

## RANGE()

`HELPER.RANGE()` method can be used to create an array of numbers for a specified range.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.RANGE(start,end);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.RANGE(5,10);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
[5,6,7,8,9,10]
```

## GETKEYVALUE()

`HELPER.GETKEYVALUE()` method can be used to get value of a specified key from object.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.GETKEYVALUE(object,key);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.GETKEYVALUE(
    {
        "key1": "DRONA",
        "key2": "HQ",
        "key3": "WELCOMES",
        "key4": "YOU"
    },"key1");

```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
DRONA
```

## ARRAYTOCSV()

`HELPER.ARRAYTOCSV()` method can be used to convert an array of arrays into csv format.

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Usage</span>

```
HELPER.GETKEYVALUE(array_of_arrays);
```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Example</span>

```
HELPER.ARRAYTOCSV(
    [
        ["Name", "Age", "Location"],
        ["John Doe", 30, "New York"],
        ["Jane Smith", 25, "Los Angeles"]
    ]      
);

```

<span style={{fontSize: 24}}>Result</span>

```
Name, Age, Location
John Doe, 30, New York
Jane Smith, 25, Los Angeles
```
